In the startup at Kraske, Kraske made it.
And then Kraske...
He's the first to see it.
Yes,
with his own project.
So, guys and guys sent from D .X.
I see.
And then after they developed,
Nuris, and others, almost 350 people, from their 250th家, were
young.
That is Nuris is a commercialization technology, to contact the
scientists.
It was such a small research, because we
were motivated to do research, but we had some of
them.
At the same time, it was a movement of communication,
innovation,
start -ups, those who were involved.
It was a process of learning by doing, we studied
and worked at the same time.
When some of the guys came to me, I wanted
to talk about my business.
What can you say about it?
I had some kind of development.
I don't know what to say.
All right.
I said, let's move.
We had to move.
It was a good example.
There was a table with its own ideas.
Let's move.
We worked with it, then went into business, then returned
to the law and defended the dissertation.
It was such a process.
It was a difficult process.
A person.
I think I'm 17.
Then we opened a medical school, then we opened a
graduate school.
There were four or five graduate schools.
Today's university is already quite complex.
I always think that, because we are positioning ourselves as
a university,
that we are still at the stage of an active
participation in the university.
That's my opinion.
Because we are not able to create a university yet.
I would like it to support the future.
It's not completely necessary to move into the university.
How many students are currently in the university?
In general, it's more than 80
,000 students.
More than 80 ,000.
We have a good student.
You know, they immediately get into other universities.
But of course, the main task was in the perspective
in order for people to sit in the middle of
the country, to create such scientific, engineering, and economic
values in the middle of the country.
And one of the projects that we started then.
This project is a science park.
So far, we haven't reached the end yet.
We should continue to do this project.
But this was a task, in fact, to create a
working place for our students and those who have learned
to work.
It's a creative and scientific work
place.
So, you have worked in the process of work.
I remember that, in my opinion, the whole concept was
for you.
Yes, we were in medicine.
Then we were in the University of Poland.
And we started with a
school of science.
And then we could continue to do this.
Because we were able to overcome it.
We were able to overcome it.
And today, this school of science is quite successful.
It helped us to achieve the potential of the engineering
school because the part of IT came from there.
There were a lot of things.
In the process of this development, a lot of interesting
and human events occurred.
People were coming from abroad.
Tell us, by the way, about the adaptation.
How did you see this process?
Well,
one simple thing.
I won't be able to name one of the young
talented students, who are currently working in the
University of Poland.
He wrote to me, let's find something else in America.
He said, I was very successful in the post -doc.
I had a clear and transparent career.
But then I told him, when he called me to
work, I told him, I talked to him, I offered
him, I said, I don't want to live in Kazakhstan.
I have a guitarist there.
We offer my best career.
He writes to Canada.
He wrote to me, I said, what will I do
there?
I said, well,
there are two options.
Your future fate.
One option, you work there.
There will be three options.
You start, you go back to your country.
But you will be the most experienced person.
A person who is in the university, and he will
be successful or not successful.
The second option is that you become a super leader
in this university.
Fortunately, I can say that
the second option is for you.
He is now a big professor in the university.
He calls it a center.
I think you have already given him a speech.
It's an atacant.
It's absurd.
That's why.
He calls it a sign.
Yes, it's a sign.
There's a sign for the university.
I'm a success.
I said that.
It's one of the classics.
I came back in the year 10th.
There was a share
in the university.
I was also known as Abel, and he was known
as Buhair Saparov.
He finished his school five years ago.
He graduated from high school and came to the university.
Then he graduated from Buhair.
After that, he graduated from PhD.
He graduated from all the US.
He worked with Tomo Michelen.
He was one of the most famous students in the
university.
Now he is a professor in the university.
And his dad is a professor.
I didn't know him before.
He is an arman Saparov.
Yes, he is an arman Saparov.
Of course, he is a medical school.
Yes, he is a medical school.
And he was a doctor.
For example, one of the people who passed away from
America to take care of his health.
He is one of the first who came.
He is a medical school.
We started the medical school.
We didn't have any medical school.
We started building it.
We built it.
It is not long ago, in my opinion.
In my opinion, we have already gone to the people.
We have already grown up.
We have grown up.
He has a professor's son.
Yes.
Well,
he is an arman.
Of course, he is a doctor.
He is a Ken Alibek.
Yes.
He is a big person.
Yes, he is a Ken Alibek.
He participated in building a school of science.
He was there with his medical school.
He participated in the medical school of science.
Yes, Ken.
He also went there.
But he also made a big effort to create this
academic infrastructure.
In fact, the project of Zambia Mneceta was a trigger
that had a critical mass of talent.
In fact, Kazakhstan was a talent that was growing up
in the world.
After that, he returned back.
Such a thing to convey to the audience.
Yes, it was interesting.
That was really a project that was actually, this is
the cleanest thing, that we raised these people.
We were getting rich.
We have helped you a lot.
As I said, we have not started to work.
I showed that place to do so.
That place is where I moved on.
I am very proud of this young guy who has
called Risy.
And his staff, his staff, too.
If you talk about
In addition, it was interesting to talk about the Caucasian
students, the Caucasian professors, but also the professors of foreign
students who do not have any ties to the Caucasus.
Yes, in America, from different countries, from Europe.
How did they come up with the example of the
Caucasian side, maybe some more examples of this in the
corner, how about the adaptation?
No, there are still people who have been working in
the first years.
That is, there are such things.
And even recently, I have a conversation with the professor,
who has been working for more than 10 years in
the university, and they said that, in principle, it is
necessary to introduce our status, because we have a lot
of desire to throw it away, even if we are
tired, we work here, everything is already alive.
Although, let's say, there are some successful families who have
come from abroad, and somehow they want their status as
well, as they want to distribute it to each other,
because we already have been working for more than 10
to 12 years, and in the end, we still have
a lot of expectations.
Of course, there is a lot of expectations that do
not work for a long time, they do not plan
to connect their life to the future, and these are
people who do not even say so, but I believe
that they want to continue their life, but they are
comfortable.
Therefore,
it is very important to have such a human experience,
and I think that it happened.
Therefore,
there are many examples.
The school of business in the corner comes,
too.
With children, yes, you have to partner.
Yes, the school of business was made with children, and
they are also functioning, in my opinion, the kitchen is
closed, now they begin to open.
You know that we have a new president now,
Patrick Duparkov is still working in the school.
No, he left.
He left, but now he is different.
In my opinion, he was in the corner of the
school of management, so it was interesting, that is, it
was interesting.
No, he left.
Now there is a new trend here.
You know that we went to 400 plus.
There is a school, there is a school of education.
It is about 200 or more.
There is a school.
a few years later, why did I have to tell
you that when I moved to the position of the
president,
when he was working in the field of management, as
a position of the president, I had to work on
my own.
Therefore, this movement was and I started this program, the
construction of the development, I returned to the previous project,
when I was working with the climate task.
And we developed this direction, and here is the new
president.
Today it is a photo.
This is the president,
a fanatic, a flag of the university that we will
focus on the construction of the development, the construction of
the construction of the whole house, the construction of the
development.
What does it mean?
Well, this is what I want to start with.
It is pure energy, pure water,
food security, there are seven, on the whole, which is
completely the highest development.
And we, in fact,
we have always observed them, but today we have already
defined the idea
of the research, the research, the preparation and the research
that is seen in the university, the tasks are decided.
At the same time, just with scientific solutions, they decide
the tasks in the same way,
the goal of the construction of the development.
They are practically correct that it is like a global,
well, for the goal of the rest, and for all
the planets, there are a lot of them.
There are some focuses, for example, on which they are
not actual, they are not actual.
There, let's say, in the health of a person.
But in general, they decide the task of the quality
of life of people.
That is, when we say that they are constantly developing
global,
then, in fact, at the same time, they should think
about the quality of life of people, then when people
live well, they are happy with the cost of life.
Therefore, these two things, the global task of the cost
of development,
and just the local quality of life of people, in
the concrete country, in Kazakhstan,
are the best energy, pure energy,
some health, health care,
rules, food, food, food, food, food, food, food,
food,